Hi, everyone, in this we are going to implement the delete and the edit entries functionality.
All right, so this how does this actually going to work?
I'm going to go into console because we might end up with some errors.
OK, I'm going to tell you beforehand and we should end up with errors because I want to show you something.
So I want to be able to click this trash icon and this item to be deleted.
And I want to be able to click this edit icon and this item should come in here.
I can edit it.
So whenever the icon item comes, the entry comes here.
It should be deleted from here.
And then when I edited and added, it should go back there so I can just show you here.
So when I click on the trash, the item goes away.
But when I click on the edit, you can see the item is deleted from here.
Everything is zero.
When I just updated with 2000 and added, the item is re added.
OK, so how can we click on these icons now, these icons, they are not like inline icons, they're
like a difficult kind of icons.
They are dynamic icons.
So we have created them right here.
So there is no way for us to, like, grab them.
So what I'm going to do is actually, you know what?
What I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the list inside, which we have our icons.
And from there we are going to keep clicking around until we find these icons.
Right.
So if I come, I'm going to come beneath these event listeners because we are going to add event listeners.
And if you remember, we had stored all of our lists inside.
This lists variable.
So I'm going to call the lists.
So I'm going to say lists, event lists.
And you're right.
So we are just calling it right here.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab all of the lists and I'm going to say for each and I'm
going to run a function.
The function is going to is going to have a parameter of list.
And on this list, I'm going to say add event listener.
The event is going to be is going to fire on click.
And when the click is received, we want to run a function, we are going to grab the event object because
we need to target those icons.
OK, so in here, what I'm going to do is first off, I'm going to say cancel that log e let's go.
Hey, let's go step by step.
So if I come here and if I click on this, we are going to get this.
It is going to give us, like, everything that we need.
But from here, let's go ahead and let's go into Target.
Target is going to give us that specific icon.
Right.
But we need to know that if we have clicked on any of these icons, we want to do something.
And if we have not clicked on them, we don't want to do anything because this event is this event has
been appended to this entire list.
So even if I click here, we are going to see the event fire click, see the event is being fired.
We don't want the event fired there.
We want the event to fire whenever we click on any of these icons.
Other than that, we want to wrap up the function.
So even if I click here, you can see that the event is being fired.
But I just I just want the event to fire when I click on either of these icons.
So if I come inside this target.
So let's click on the edit.
If I come inside this target, this is a property that we have from the target.
Let's go ahead.
Now, we have done the local name, right.
But that Routh was really long path and then pass in the index and all that.
I found out that there is local name inside this target as well.
So if I come here, the local name is the element name.
The local name is I.
So I could see the target and inside the target local name.
Now let's go ahead on this click.
So for the U.
For the list, I should get a UL, which we do for the elai.
We should get on Ally.
Sorry, this is the diff.
So this should be really OK because this salary is inside one div, this icons, these are inside another
div that has a class of action.
So this is a diff.
This is I, this is I.
This is Elai.
You Well you, you, all of that.
You are so based on this we can run an if statement.
All right, so before even doing the statements, I want to show you some more council logs as well.
So the other council log that I want to show you here is going to be the attributes.
So either target DOT attributes, we can grab the attributes as well.
I could show you I mean, like I should show you first.
So if I click on this, the event is fired.
Let's go into Target.
This is the event target.
And from the target, let's go into attributes a double T..
So inside the attributes, we are going to have access to all of the attributes.
So we have like a class and then we have this.
So inside the class we can say dot class.
We are going to grab all the we are going to have all this all this information.
But what we need is what is the value for that class?
Because the value for the class is actually what it is.
The class name.
It is exactly like an e-mail and a statement.
A class has a name and has a value, hence the value.
So we are going to grab this.
And if I just pay attention to this, it is a Ardeche sorry if I are space f a dash edit.
And if I come here on top of this application, we have stored that inside the edit icon and this is
that we have stored it inside here, inside this at first and like in the first lecturer's of this project.
So we have stored this class name here and this is the class name for F a trust.
So if you followed the same route, we are going to grab that trash.
We are going to reach it as well.
So e dot target, dot com attributes, dot class dot value is going to give us this.
Right.
So I'm just going to show you once for one of them.
I'm sure this is clear.
Now, where are we?
Here we are.
Target dot com.
What was that was attributes, attributes, dot class, dot value.
So if I excuse me, if I click on this, we are going to get a list.
This is the class for that.
The class of the Ullas list.
The class of the ELA is income, if you remember correctly, from our dynamic element, because the
class of each of the allies depends on which list they are in.
So if they are inside the income list, the class is income.
If they are inside expense list, the classes expense.
If I click on this trash, this is the class for the trash.
This is class for the edit.
We need these classes.
All right, and before writing, there was one more concert, the log that I want to show you, because
I want you guys to really understand what it is that we are doing here, concert log.
And I want to say dot e let's let's go ahead and let's check it out.
So what is it that we want to do?
If I click on this Strache icon, I want to remove this illi, but what is the relationship between
this entire Illi and the Strache icon?
We can visualize that from our this element that we have created here because this is our elai so we
can see inside the light we have a div that varies depending tak for that def.
Oops, I should have done this, you know, STEM elements, they work without closing tax, but this
is a best practice to provide closing tax.
Just a fun fact.
And so the eye has a parent node, which is this Sadef, and this div has another parent node, which
is this ALLAI.
So this is a a like a grandchild of this illi.
So two levels up is going to be alive.
Remember, two levels up.
So let's come here and say the E let's go ahead and let's try to visualize it here.
So e dot dot target.
That parent note is going to give us the first level of parents, the first parent OPIS.
So this is the parent node.
You can see that it is the div with a class of action.
But what is the parent node of this div with a class of action?
It is the ALLAI.
And this is the.
See, this is the entire line, so whenever we click on the icon, we want to delete the parent of the
parent of this icon, very, very simple, so we can pass it in here as well.
Targeted parent.
No doubt, parent, the first parent note is going to give us the divide with the class of action,
the second one is going to give us the ally that we want to delete.
So, OK, this page is loading, let's wait for it.
So when I click on this, we get the ALLAI.
When I click on this, we get the Allai are ready, right.
When I click on this div with a class of we get the second parent doesn't matter.
Right.
So the usual is right here.
This is the first parent and this is the second parent that we got.
But that doesn't matter.
What matters is whenever I click on this trash, we get the ALLAI.
We have successfully found this.
Aliment, however, this is something else.
All right, so now let's go ahead and let's write our FEMA.
So we say if either target we have done this, the local name is not equal to I.
Return, so if what the user has clicked on doesn't have a local name.
If I just return, we can consider log this as well.
One, two, three.
So it doesn't matter where I click, we can't see one, two or three.
But if I click on this trash, we can see one, two, three.
If I click on this edit, we can see another one, two, three.
It doesn't matter where we click.
So we have limited the click.
I'm going to tell you why we need this if statement.
We don't really need it.
But this is like best practice that I like to do.
Now, what I want to do here is I want to grab the target button.
So the target button is the target button.
The trash icon or the target button is the edit icon.
We need to find out which is which.
All right, so keep your friends rich and your enemies rich and find out and wait to find out which
is which very wise words I'll try.
All right.
So we say either target attributes, attributes, dot class, dot value.
We know what this is going to give us.
This is going to give us the class for it.
And then we are going to run another statement as well.
Let entry be equal to.
Let entry be equal to the target at parent.
Note, not parent.
No, I just showed you what this is going to give us.
This is going to give us the ally, of course, and now let's create another one, which is the target
IED, OK, because when we click on the let's say let's say there is another item as well.
So when I click on this icon of two, one, two, I do not want to delete the salary of 2000.
I should delete that specific elai that for which I have clicked the trash.
I should delete that.
So that's why we are going to get the ideas were targeted entry date attributes the same routes as the
class dot idee, dot value.
We know what the ideas from this entry that we have created here.
That's why we have passed and the IED.
So this elai has an IED, OK, that Eli has an IED.
Excuse me.
So you know what?
I'm going to postpone the rest of this video, the rest of this functionality to our next lecture.
Hopefully we will get it done.
If not, we are going to create another lecture.
We don't care as long as this application works beautifully and you understand wonderfully.
See you guys then.